CLDR-15370 Clean up Survey Tool Guide and update known issues (#5681)
unicode-org/cldr: docs/site/translation/getting-started/guide.md

## Login and Import of old votes

1. Go to https://st.unicode.org/cldr-apps/survey/ and log in.

![Log In button in upper right hand corner of Survey Tool](../../images/gettingStartedGuideNotOpenYet.jpeg)

1. **Import of old votes** is automatically handled when you log in for all your votes **matching** the latest released data. If you have voted previously, upon first log-in, you will see a message showing the number of your votes that matched the currently winning votes that have been auto-imported.

> 1. Import of your old votes will take some time, but this will be done at 1st log-in only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Import of your old votes will take some time, but this will be done at the first log-in only.
```

## Login and Import of old votes

1. Go to https://st.unicode.org/cldr-apps/survey/ and log in.

![Log In button in upper right hand corner of Survey Tool](../../images/gettingStartedGuideNotOpenYet.jpeg)

> 1. **Import of old votes** is automatically handled the first time you log in for all your votes **matching** the latest released data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Import of old votes** happens automatically the first time you log in and will import all your previous votes **if they match** the most recently released data.
```

	* If you have voted previously, you will see a message showing the number of your votes that matched the currently winning votes that have been auto-imported.
	*	

> 	> Note: Import of your old votes will take some time, but this will be done only at the first log in for a new [General Submission] cycle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	> Note: Import of your old votes will take some time, but this will be done only at the first log-in for a new [General Submission] cycle.
```

	![Notification of number of automatically imported votes](../../images/gettingStartedGuideOldWinningVotes.jpg)

2. **Import old votes manually**. You can still import your old voted data that **DO NOT match** the last released data.
    1. Go to the **☰ Menu**, look under **My Votes**, and choose **Import Old Votes**.
    
	![Import Old Votes option in menu](../../images/GettingStartedGuideImportOldVotes.png)

	2. You can choose to limit your import to specific items.

	![Import selected items option](../../images/gettingStartedGuideImportSelectedItems.jpeg)

	3. Scroll to the bottom to see the category selection for bulk import.

> 	4. Select the categories that you want to import and click **Import selected items** button at the bottom.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	4. Select the categories that you want to import and click the **Import selected items** button at the bottom.
```

	5. Go to the data categories in the Survey Tool where you have imported your old votes, these will show up in the Others column with no votes.

> 	6. Review and add your vote. The best practice is to create a forum entry explaining why this is the data that should be changed to and drive to gain consensus with other vetters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	6. Review and add your vote. The best practice is to create a forum entry explaining why this data should be changed and drive to gain consensus with other vetters.
```

![Example of parent language (Spanish) with the default region Spain and other child locales](../../images/gettingStartedGuideSpanish.jpg)

1.  Only those of you working on a specific variant language (or "sub-locale") will pick a non-default region. If you work on Mexican Spanish, pick **Mexico**. (This should already be pre-selected for you.)

_If the [Info Panel][] was turned off, click on the **Open Info Panel** button near the top right of the window._

### Voting view

![Image of the 7 columns in the voting view](../../images/gettingStartedGuideArabic.png)

1. Once you have selected your locale, more options show up in the left sidebar. (You’ll note that the sidebar only shows if you mouse over the **\>** character on the left.)

> 2. If the locale is relatively new and very complete, start working on the **Core Data** section and go through the rest of the sections. If the locale is mostly complete, then go to the [Dashboard][] (below).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. If the locale is relatively new and not very complete, start working on the **Core Data** section and go through the rest of the sections. If the locale is mostly complete, then go to the [Dashboard][] (below).
```

	![Example of parent language (Spanish) with the default region Spain and other child locales](../../images/gettingStartedGuideSpanish.jpg)

1.  Only those of you working on a specific variant language (or "sub-locale") will pick a non-default region. If you work on Mexican Spanish, pick **Mexico**. (This should already be pre-selected for you.)

_If the [Info Panel][] was turned off, click on the **Open Info Panel** button near the top right of the window._

### Voting view

![Image of the 7 columns in the voting view](../../images/gettingStartedGuideArabic.png)

1. Once you have selected your locale, more options show up in the left sidebar. (The sidebar only shows if you mouse over the **\>** character on the left.)
2. If the locale is relatively new and not very complete, start working on the **Core Data** section and go through the rest of the sections. If the locale is mostly complete, then go to the [Dashboard][] (below).
3. Once you have selected a section, you'll see a table to enter votes in. The main table has these columns:
    - **Code**: the code CLDR uses to identify this data point.

>     - **English**: the English value of the data point (the text you are to translate).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **English**: the English value of the data point (the text you are to localize).
```

    - **Abstain**: the default vote value until you vote on an item. You can also use this to retract a vote, or when you are unsure of your vote.

>     - **A**: The value’s current [draft status][]. A checkmark means it’s approved and is slated to be used. A cross means it’s a missing value. Because emoji are used for these icons, you can use Find on Page in your browser to look for them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **A**: The value’s current [draft status][]. We use emoji for these icons so that you can use Find on Page in your browser to look for them.
```

Reviewer 2: Removed redundant text.

    	- ✅️ the green checkmark emoji means the value is approved and will be used.

>      	- ☑️ the gray checkmark emoji means the value is contributed (not enough people have voted on it to qualify as "approved".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     	- ☑️ the gray checkmark emoji means the value is contributed (not enough people have voted on it to qualify as "approved").
```

	    - An approved value makes it clear to anyone using CLDR data — and to the CLDR-TC — that the value is correct for your locale.
	    - An approved value is less likely to be accidentally overturned: Suppose that 3 organizations agree that a value is right, but don't vote for it, leaving the winning value with a lower status. Later a fourth organization votes for a suboptimal alternative, which then wins, because the winning value was not approved.
   - **Add**: If the winning value is not correct and is not listed under Others, then use the plus button here to enter the correct value. If you enter a new value, your vote will be applied to it automatically.
        - If what you want is a variation of what is in Winning or Others, there are buttons you can click to copy over the English value or the currently winning value, so that you can have that as the base of your edit.
    - **Others**: other suggested values, not currently winning, but available to vote for.

> 5. Click on one of the radio buttons to make your vote. The winning status changes in real-time so depending on vote requirements and existing votes, your vote may move your desired value to the winning column right away.

Reviewer 2: I think the count is off and this is item 4.

Author: It may be better that I change them all to be 1. For what it's worth it shows up correctly in the preview. Unfortunately new lines with the emoji aren't I may try fixing them after committing your suggestions.

![Example of parent language (Spanish) with the default region Spain and other child locales](../../images/gettingStartedGuideSpanish.jpg)

1.  Only those of you working on a specific variant language (or "sub-locale") will pick a non-default region. If you work on Mexican Spanish, pick **Mexico**. (This should already be pre-selected for you.)

_If the [Info Panel][] was turned off, click on the **Open Info Panel** button near the top right of the window._

### Voting view

![Image of the 7 columns in the voting view](../../images/gettingStartedGuideArabic.png)

1. Once you have selected your locale, more options show up in the left sidebar. (You’ll note that the sidebar only shows if you mouse over the **\>** character on the left.)
2. If the locale is relatively new and very complete, start working on the **Core Data** section and go through the rest of the sections. If the locale is mostly complete, then go to the [Dashboard][] (below).
3. Once you have selected a section, you'll see a table to enter votes in. The main table has these columns:
    - **Code**: the code CLDR uses to identify this data point.

>     - **English**: the plain English value of the data point (the text you are to translate).

Reviewer 3: Here are some suggestions. These are not blockers in case you want to merge what you have.

> **English**: the plain English value of the data point (the text you are to translate).

Add: Note that very often it is not a literal translation. See ...

> Abstain: the default vote value for you. Only use abstain if you don't know a good value to be used.

=> 
Abstain: Use this to retract a vote, or when you are unsure of your vote. Review the forum posts to see what others said, though.

> **A**: The value’s current status. 

=> 
A: The value’s current status. A ✅️ checkmark means it’s approved and is slated to be used (gray ☑️ is weaker approval). Anything else means it is not approved. 
    * A hole 🕳️ icon means the value is completely missing. 
    * A ✖️icon means the value has provisional status (An ❌️ icon is even weaker). Most implementations will _not_ use this data.
    * A ⬆️​ icon indicates that the value will be inherited (unless it gets stronger approval). 
    * Because emoji are used for these icons, you can use Find on Page in your browser to look for them.

Other items I found

> Unicode organization members usually have 4 votes; vetters which are not representing a Unicode organization usually have 1 vote.

Maybe indicate TC members' vote?

> The goal is that you should work the Dashboard down to show zero items, then review the Reports (below).

I think this needs to be broken down more. We don't expect "English Changed" to go to zero, necessarily, and often not Warnings.

Missing images for the following

> Example of a protected item

> Request for Review

> After hitting that Request button, you'll see the following.

Author: Let me try updating based on your feedback and then I'll re-request your review.

Reviewer 3: OK

Author: Okay, here is what I was able to do:
- updated the information about the voting view. PTAL and let me know if I missed anything. I think it's still important to tell vetters that their vote is abstain by default before they have voted on an item so I kept that piece.
-  I added what the TC organization member votes are.

For the follow up PR:
- re: I think this needs to be broken down more. We don't expect "English Changed" to go to zero, necessarily, and often not Warnings. I thought vetters can hide warnings and whether a warning is hidden or not will import the next cycle, is that not the case?
- I will update the images in a separate PR. There are several that also need to be updated because they are out of date.

Reviewer 4: > * I thought vetters can hide warnings and whether a warning is hidden or not will import the next cycle, is that not the case?

It is the case. The database table `cldr_dash_hide` is not version-specific. It's permanent, unless the user subsequently unchecks the "hide" checkbox. Technically there is no "import" but the setting does not expire at the end of a cycle.

6. Below that, you'll see an example. This is the same as you get by hovering over the item in the center section.
7. If there are votes, you'll see a breakdown of them; you also see the number of votes required to change the value. Unicode organization members usually have 4 votes; _vetters which are not representing a Unicode organization usually have 1 vote_. Your vote value and the vote value required for change will show on the right navigation for the selected item as shown in this screenshot (4 and 8 respectively in this case).
8. Near the bottom, you'll see a pulldown menu that shows the values for different regional Variants. Here, you can quickly compare the values and go to different sub-locales to correct inconsistencies.

> 9. You'll also see the New Forum Post button (as shown in the screenshot _to the right_). This is the easiest way to post discussions for the selected item. Remember that the Forum posts are at language level and not at Sub-locale level. For more information, see [Forum][].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. You'll also see the New Forum Post button (as shown in the screenshot _to the right_). This is the easiest way to post discussions for the selected item. Remember that the Forum posts are at language level and not at sub-locale level. For more information, see [Forum][].
```

10. **No Info Panel?**
    - If you click on the **Code** cell and there is no **Info Panel**, you may have turned it off accidentally. Click on the **Open Info Panel** button near the top right of the window.

![Example of what the Info Panel looks like](../../images/gettingStartedGuideSideBar.png)
![Button to open Info Panel if the Info Panel is currently closed](../../images/gettingStartedGuideCookies.png)

## Inheritance

There are three different ways a value can be inherited. You have the option of voting for an inherited value or entering a different one.

> For items which are inherited either from a different place in the locale such as date formats,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For items which are inherited either from a different place in the locale, such as date formats,
```

| Blue         | The value is inherited from a parent locale. See [Regional Inheritance][] for more details. |

![Image of the inheritance colors](../../images/gettingStartedGuideColorCode.png)

> Note: Voting on inheritance means "always use the inherited value, even if the value changes in the future.” An inheritance vote is recommended if there are no differences in spelling conventions and political relations between your locale and the parent locale. Voting for inheritance minimizes duplication of data.

### Regional Variants (also known as Sub-locales)

Language variants by Region are differentiated as Parent-locale and sub-locales. For example:

-   **Spanish es** is the parent (or the default) locale for all Spanish locales. Its default content is Spanish (Spain) es\_ES.

-   **Spanish (Latin America) es\_419** is one of the sub-locales for Spanish. Votes on inheritance will ensure that it will only contain content that is different than what is in Spanish.

-   **Spanish (Argentina) es\_AR** is one of the sub-locales for Spanish (Latin America).Votes on inheritance will ensure that it will only contain content that is different than what is in Spanish (Latin America)

> <!--

Reviewer 2: Is this intentional?

Author: Yeah, it's all out of date and the text doesn't match the images, we'll have to update it separately later. I'll try to do it next week. Right now it's just confusing.

If any values are incorrect, please correct them. You can do that by selecting the menu item, which will take you to the same item, but in the regional locale. For example, selecting “Belgium” above goes to the decimal separator for _German (Belgium)_. You can then correct the item.

Normally, the only values that should be different are in date and number formats. In some locales there are other variations: for example, German (Switzerland) spells words with “ss” instead of “ß”, so differences can occur on many different pages.

-->

### Regional Inheritance

If you are voting in a sub-locale such as en\_AU, es\_MX, fr\_CA etc., you can vote to use the translation from the locale you inherit from.
You can do this by voting for the translation highlighted in blue box.

An inheritance vote is useful if there are no differences in spelling conventions and political relations between your locale and the parent locale.
Abstaining from voting may appear to have the same effect, but if another vetter votes for something different, their vote may cause the winning vote to change.
By voting for the blue inheritance value you make your opinion known to other vetters and the CLDR TC.

> Whenever you vote for inheritance, you are saying "**always use the inherited value, even if it changes in the source parent value**".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Whenever you vote for inheritance, you are saying "**always use the inherited value, even if it changes in the parent value**".
```

In the screenshot below, this is the case for the vote for "inglês". If the parent value eventually changes, the value in your locale will also change.
You can vote for a different value in your locale if the value in the parent locale later changes to be something that won't work in your locale.
You can find the list of items where the parent inheritance has changed by checking the Dashboard [Inherited Changed category][].
New items may appear in the [Inherited Changed category][] throughout the [General Submission][] and [Vetting][] phases as vetters in the parent locale vote for items.

> - Inheritance is important, it helps reduce data size for any software that uses CLDR data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Inheritance is important, it helps reduce CLDR's data size, making a smaller footprint for any implementation.
```

- Inheritance is not only limited to “sub locales”. Parent locales (or default language locales) also have inheritance from root or other fields.
- By default, all data are inherited if there are no contributions. The data are indicated as Missing or Abstain. Sub-locales have inherited values that are generally from the parent locale (e.g. de\_CH will inherit values from de\_DE).
- The inherited values appear in the **Others** column highlighted in blue box (e.g. “embu” and "inglês"). By clicking the radio button in front of those values, you are voting for inheritance.
- If the inherited value is not correct for your locale or it’s likely for your locale to change the data in the future, click the + button, and enter a new suggestion.

### _Progress Widget_

There is a progress widget that shows your voting progress on the page in the upper right corner of the Survey Tool next to the Info Panel toggle.
You can see details of your progress when you hover over the widget, including what progress is being measured,
and the total number of items remaining for you to vote on in that category.

> Your progress is measured based on the coverage level you have set, so make check to make sure your coverage level is set correctly at the start of the new cycle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your progress is measured based on the coverage level you have set, so make sure your coverage level is set correctly at the start of the new cycle.
```

> > Note: The progress widget is currently only visible when you are signed in and the dashboard is open.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note: The progress widget is currently only visible when you are logged in and the dashboard is open.
```

### _Page progress_

_Progress bar shows progress of items on page for your coverage level._

![Page progress widget tooltip](../../images/gettingStartedGuidePageProgress.png)

### _Overall progress_

_Progress bar shows progress of items overall for your coverage level._

![Overall progress widget tooltip](../../images/gettingStartedGuideOverallProgress.png)

## Dashboard

The Dashboard will show you a list of data items with warnings of different kinds. Some will require action, some may be false positives.

> At the top of the Dashboard is a header with a button for each section the title (such as **Missing**) and the number of items. Below that header are a series of rows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the top of the Dashboard is a header with a button for each section title (such as **Missing**) and the number of items. Below that header are a series of rows.
```

The goal is that you should work the Dashboard down to show zero items, then review the [Reports][] (below).

![Dashboard option in left navigation bar](../../images/gettingStartedGuideDashboard.png)

### Dashboard Summary

There are two ways to clear items from the **Dashboard** list:

> 1. Fix them (such as adding a translation for a missing item)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Fix them (such as adding a translation for a missing item).
```

2. Hide them (such as for an invalid warning or when the English has changed and you've verified that the current translation is still correct).

- _**Only**_ hide items if they really are false positives, **not** because you gave up on fixing them…
- If you hide an item by mistake:
    - Unhide all the lines with the top eye button.
    - Click on the orange eye button in the line (a “Show" tooltip will appear).
    - Hide all the lines again by clicking the top eye button.

_The first priority is to fix all the_ _**Missing**_ _items by supplying the correct translations._

### Dashboard Columns

There are six columns in the Dashboard view that provide a summary of key information about that item.

| Column | Description|
|------- |----------- |
| Dashboard category | The first letter of the section name enclosed in a circle. |
| Data Type | The section that the item belongs to. |

> | Code | this links to the field in the Survey Tool. Click on it to go to the item in the Survey Tool. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Code | This is a link to the field in the Survey Tool. |
```

| English | The English value is highlighted in blue. |
| Winning _**XX**_ |The currently winning value is highlighted in green. |
| Hide checkbox | For items that can be hidden a checkbox to hide that option appears on the far right. |

![example of the columns for a specific item in the dashboard](../../images/gettingStartedGuideDashboardCols.png)

### How to handle different categories

Following are guidelines on best practices for handling items under each category in Dashboard:

| Category | Priority | Description |
| :------: | :------: | :---------- |

> | Error    | High   | The currently winning value has caused an error in validation that will have to be resolved before release. Fix the error. In some cases there is a conflict between items and you'll need to fix the conflicting item, not the one showing the error. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Error    | High   | The currently winning value has caused an error in validation that will have to be resolved before release. Fix the error. In some cases there is a conflict between items (such as two different items having identical translations) and you'll need to fix the conflicting item, not the one showing the error. |
```

| Missing  | High   | These are items where there is no localization provided by any contributor. Click on the line to be taken to the item in the Survey Tool where items are highlighted and you can add a translation. When you fix a **Missing** item it will turn to **Changed**. |
| Losing   | Medium | These are items that you have already voted on, but where your vote is not for the currently winning value. If you can live with the currently winning value — even if you don't think it is optimal, but reasonable — change your vote to be for the winning item. Otherwise, click the **Forum** button in the **Info Panel** and give reasons for why your fellow vetters should change their vote. If others change their vote, the value may still be approved before the end of the cycle. **Engage with others on the Forum discussions**. Make sure to post good and verifiable arguments as to why others should change their votes and **respond to others’ posts**. Review all of the items to see if someone else’s item is better and read the forum, and whether you want to change your vote. Discuss in the forum, then use the Hide button to hide disputes you’ve addressed in the forum. |

> | Changed  | Medium | The **Changed** items are because the Winning translation has been changed whether due to a Missing item being resolved, or the winning value changing	|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Changed  | Medium | Items show up under **Changed** because the Winning translation has been changed, possibly due to a Missing item being resolved or just that the winning value changed.	|
```

> | English Changed | High | These are items where the English source has changed *after* the last change in translation.	Items that are listed in this section indicates that you need to re-check them and assess the impact to your language and update as appropriate. (Sometimes English changes will have no impact to translations such as changes in capitialization.) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| English Changed | High | These are items where the English source has changed *after* the last change in translation.	Items that are listed in this section indicates that you need to re-check them and assess the impact to your language and update as appropriate. (Sometimes English changes will have no impact to translations, such as changes in capitialization.) |
```

> | Warnings | Medium | These are issues which appear after automatic checks. For example, a message could be "_The value is the same as English"_, which is a quite common warning for languages that are close to English in the spelling of languages or territories. If the value is actually valid, then click on the Hide button (crossed eye). If not, then vote for a fix, or post on the Forum for discussion. Any warnings you've hidden will remain hidden during an future CLDR cycles you participate in. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Warnings | Medium | These are issues which appear after automatic checks. For example, a message could be "_The value is the same as English_", which is a quite common warning for languages that are close to English in the spelling of languages or territories. If the value is actually valid, then click on the Hide button (crossed eye). If not, then vote for a fix, or post on the Forum for discussion. Any warnings you've hidden will remain hidden during an future CLDR cycles you participate in. |
```

| Inherited Changed | High | The translated value is inherited from another value, and that value has changed. Ensure that the value is still suitable for your locale.			|

> | Abstained | High  | These are values where you and the org you represent have not provided any vote at all. It is best practice to have no abstained values for your language and coverage level to ensure high confidence in our release. If you voted for the item in the previous cycle and the same value is still winning but your previous vote didn't import,  please follow [Reporting Survey Tool issues][]. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Abstained | High  | These are values where you and the org you represent have not provided any vote at all. It is best practice to have no abstained values for your language and coverage level to ensure high confidence in our release. If you voted for the item in the previous cycle and the same value is still winning but your previous vote didn't import, please submit a vote and also go to [Reporting Survey Tool issues][]. |
```

Author: So what I was trying to get to here is that we want them to report if they have a lot more abstains than they expect at the beginning of a new submission cycle.

![Example of a missing item in the dashboard](../../images/gettingStartedGuideMissing.png)

![example of a warning in the dashboard for another locale](../../images/gettingStartedGuideWarning.png)

## Reports

> The reports show lists of items that need to be reviewed for consistency. Review these last after you have voted for all the missing and provisional items this cycle since they will not generate correctly with missing data. Reports can be found in both the dashboard as well as in the left navigation bar between the Dashboard and Forum options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The reports show lists of items that need to be reviewed for consistency. Review these last, after you have voted for all the missing and provisional items this cycle, since they will not generate correctly with missing data. Reports can be found in both the dashboard as well as in the left navigation bar between the Dashboard and Forum options.
```

[Left navigation bar view](../../images/gettingStartedGuideKorean.png)

_Example of a section of the date time report:_

![Example of a section of the date time report](../../images/gettingStartedGuidePatterns.jpeg)

## Special cases

**You may not make changes to this locale**

You may see a message like the following when trying to modify a regional locale, like pt-BR.

![Brazil is grayed out in left navigation bar example](../../images/gettingStartedGuidePortuguese.png)

→

![Tooltip explanation of why it is grayed out](../../images/gettingStartedGuideBrazil.png)

> The reason that Brazil is grayed out is that it is the default content locale for Portuguese. So to modify pt-BR, you need to simply click on Portuguese. If you do click on Brazil, you will get to a page with the following at the top. Clicking on [default content locale][] will explain in more detail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The reason that Brazil is grayed out is that it is the default content locale for Portuguese. So to modify pt-BR, you need to simply click on Portuguese. If you do click on Brazil, you will get to a page with the following at the top. Click on [default content locale][] for more details.
```

![warning at on main Survey Tool page when Portuguese (Brazil) is selected](../../images/gettingStartedGuideGeneralInfo.png)

<a id='20-vote-items-may-not-be-modified'>
<a id='change-protected-items'>

### Changing Protected Items

Some items have change-protection in place that will stop the item value from changing without the CLDR Technical Commmittee's approval, but you can still advocate a change.

> This is indicated by the message shown below. This warning indicates that the item is particularly sensitive to data instability and has a broad impact.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is indicated by the message shown below. This warning indicates that the item has particularly broad impact and changes should only be made if absolutely necessary.
```

4. The box at the top shows information about the code you are translating. _It also has a link that you should click on the first type you encounter that kind of item that will explain any "gotchas"._
5. If there is an error or warning for the item, you see that in the middle.
6. Below that, you'll see an example. This is the same as you get by hovering over the item in the center section.

> 7. If there are votes, you'll see a breakdown of them; you also see the number of votes required to change the value. Unicode TC organization members usually have 6 votes; members from other [CLDR organizations][] usually have 4 votes; while _vetters which are not representing a Unicode organization usually have 1 vote_. Your vote value and the vote value required for change will show on the right navigation for the selected item as shown in this screenshot (4 and 8 respectively in this case).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. If there are votes, you'll see a breakdown of them; you also see the number of votes required to change the value. Unicode TC organization members usually have 6 votes; members from other [CLDR organizations][] usually have 4 votes; and _vetters who are not representing a Unicode organization usually have 1 vote_. Your vote value and the vote value required for change will show on the right navigation for the selected item as shown in this screenshot (4 and 8 respectively in this case).
```

![Button to open Info Panel if the Info Panel is currently closed](../../images/gettingStartedGuideCookies.png)

## Inheritance

There are three different ways a value can be inherited. You have the option of voting for an inherited value or entering a different one.
For items which are inherited either from a different place in the locale, such as date formats,
or from a parent locale you will see a "Jump to Original ⇒" option in the [Info Panel][] which will take you to the place the value is being inherited from.

Inherited values are also highlighted with different colors to make it easier to know where an item is being inherited from.

| Color        | Meaning |
| ------------ |-------- |
| Red          | The value is inherited from Root. Only certain types of data can be inherited from Root. |
| Light purple | The value is inherited from somewhere else in the same locale. |
:              : A common place to see this is in Date & Time :
| Blue         | The value is inherited from a parent locale. See [Regional Inheritance][] for more details. |

![Image of the inheritance colors](../../images/gettingStartedGuideColorCode.png)

> > Note: Voting on inheritance means "always use the inherited value, even if the value changes in the future.”

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note: Voting on inheritance means "always use the inherited value, even if the value changes in the future”.
```

- It’s possible that participants have different expectations on the intent of the data. Clarify what you think is the intent may help especially if disputes continue.
- Remember that open discussion is an important part of the process; abiding by these guidelines will encourage active participation by all vetters and a better end result.

### Forum post workflow

1. Create a new **Request**
2. Responses by other vetters in your language with Agree, Decline, or Comment.

> 3. Once resolved, the creators of the the initial Request closes the post.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Once resolved, the creator of the the initial Request closes the post.
```

![Forum Post example from the Info Hub](../../images/gettingStartedGuideAgree.png)

**Choosing your Response:** Vote, or Comment

1. When you make a vote on an item that already has a Request post by another vetter, then an Agree or Decline post will be made for you automatically. If you agree with the reasons for change, you aren't required to add explanations for agreeing unless you believe it is important to add additional explanation for linguists or the CLDR TC so that the decision during this cycle is not accidentally overturned in a future cycle due to missing information about the original change.

2. An **Automated Agree post** will be posted if you vote for the requested value with a precomposed reply: _(Auto-generated:) I voted for “{requested-value}”_

3. If you later change your vote to something other than the requested value an automatic response will be be posted with the precomposed reply: _(Auto-generated:) I changed my vote to “{requested-value}”, which now disagrees with the request.”_

![Example of an automatically generated response by changing votes](../../images/gettingStartedGuideAutoAgree.png)

> 4. **Comment:** Use this option if you do not Agree or Decline, and you have other input to bring to the discussion or if you want to ask for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. **Comment:** Use this option if you do not Agree, and you have other input to bring to the discussion or if you want to ask for more information.
```

    - **All topics:** All topics, open or closed, including forum posts from previous releases.
    - Note that Forum posts that were active in previous releases will be marked as Closed at the start of a new Survey Tool cycle.

#### Respond to forum posts in the Forum view

> In the Forum view, you can respond to Request post by voting for the requested item which will trigger an automatic post with the text: "(Auto-generated:) I voted for “REQUESTED ITEM” or by clicking on the "Comment" button to explain why you disagree with the proposal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Forum view, you can respond to Request post by voting for the requested item. This will trigger an automatic post with the text: "(Auto-generated:) I voted for “REQUESTED ITEM”" or by clicking on the "Comment" button to explain why you disagree with the proposal.
```

See [Responding to Request posts in Info Panel][].

![Example forum post](../../images/gettingStartedGuideForumPosts.png)

### Forum email notifications

1. Another way to check for posts that may need your attention is to review email notifications to the e-mail account for your locale. You can delete these notifications if they are for changes initiated by you. You can open the post directly from a link in the email.
2. When you make a forum entry, it will be emailed to all other linguists working on locales with the same language, parent or sub-locale (i.e. **forum is at Language level and not at sub-locale level**). If you are talking about a translation in a sub-locale, be sure that you are clear about that.

## Reporting Survey Tool issues

If you run into a problem with the Survey Tool functionalities or if the documentation doesn't match the current Survey Tool experience, please see [FAQ & Known Bugs][] to see whether it has already been reported (and whether there is a work-around).

> If there is a PM managing contributions for your organziation please report the issue to your PM. To get support for DDL locales check the [DDL: Help Center][] for instructions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there is a PM (Project Manager) managing contributions for your organization, please report the issue to your PM. To get support for DDL locales check the [DDL: Help Center][] for instructions.
```

## Advanced Survey Tool Features

1. Users familiar with CLDR XML format can upload votes (and submissions) for multiple items at once. See [Bulk Data Upload][].

> 2. Organization managers can manage users for their organization (add, remove, send passwords, set locales, etc.) For more information, see [Managing Users][].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Organization managers can manage users for their organization (add, remove, send passwords, set locales, etc.). For more information, see [Managing Users][].
```
